# Hoodie Blog Post Process

1. **Pitching** - Writers pitch us articles via this repository's GitHub issues. To make it easier for all parties involved, we provide [a template for their pitches](Blog Post Pitch Template.md). This gives us all the information needed to start the reviewal process. This may not be needed for certain recurring series, such as TGIF.

2. **Reviewing** - After the writer has submitted their pitch, members of the editorial team should review it, and offer feedback. The feedback shouldn't necessarily be a yes/no (unless the writer submitted something wildly off-topic. we should document what sort of content we want), but just feedback for the writer to make an even stronger pitch. This feedback/review period should last a few days, to let as many of us as possible give feedback. The editorial team should also start volunteering themselves for [the additional roles](Editorial Team Roles.md) needed to get this post published.

3. **Approving** - Once there has been enough feedback, we can then make the decision whether or not to accept the article pitch. If the feedback was positive, and the writer is on board with any potential changes suggested, then we can accept the pitch, and continue with the process.

4. **Writing** - At this point, we now give the writer the go-ahead to start writing. We ask that they submit their writing via a GitHub pull request, so we can review it in the same flow that the rest of the process has been in. We'll point them to [this document](How To Submit Your Blog Post.md) for a step-by-step guide on how to fork this repository, create the Markdown file, and submit a pull request to this repository. We should make sure to emphasize that we're here to help with any questions related to the process.

5. **Editing** - When the author has submitted writing via a pull request, anyone who has offered to edit should leave comments on the pull request with their suggestions. As well, any illustrators, photographers, or contributors of additional content should post their content to this pull request, so it can be added to the post. By the time editing is done, the post should be complete, with all content in place. The author and editor should give the :+1: that the post is ready to be published.

6. **Publishing** - With the post ready, the publisher should send a pull request to [the hood.ie repository](https://github.com/hoodiehq/hood.ie) with the article ready, including the correct file name and necessary Front Matter in the file. To assist our social media team, the publisher should include in the pull request what the URL will be, so any pre-scheduled tweets can be made. On the specified publishing day/time for the series the post is in, the publisher should merge the pull request. The social media posts should go out soon after. (*todo: add technical guide for this process*)
